Adding POIs to OSM Maps
Adding POIs made easy and fun using the Maps.Me apps 
[__credit to__](https://www.aph.org/)

Introduction:
OpenStreetMap, also commonly known as OSM, is an open map, allowing users to edit the map as well as freely using and searching the map.  Anybody with access can freely add any REAL data to the map, such as buildings, roads, landmarks, or even natural features that people may find interesting.
With the help of the Maps.Me app, available for both iOS and Android, adding new POIs is a simple process.  And it is a way to help people around you.
When a person who is blind travels through her environment, she does not get to observe the signs that adorn every building and point of interest that lets you know what business occupies that building. Instead, many rely on a specialized GPS app that announces building names and other information as they move.
Until now, these apps used a commercial service, like Google Places or Foursquare, to obtain these points of interest. These services were free for an app to use, but, companies have decided to start charging for this information. Since the apps use the information dynamically, they make a lot of API calls. Calculations indicate that for APH's Nearby Explorer app to continue using Google or Foursquare to provide the level of detail currently available, the bill would be cost prohibitive.  
As such, we need to find a suitable replacement.  OSM is already a good source to use as a replacement in Europe.  But in the USA, OSM is not currently very well populated with POIs.  Our goal is to help OSM to become that suitable replacement for the USA as well by encouraging a type of crowd sourcing where people across the country populate the maps with all of the POIs they encounter.
When we do this, these points of interest do not belong to APH, Maps.Me, or any other organization - they are public data that should not be owned by any particular company.  So not only are we helping APH to make Nearby Explorer a better app, we are helping Maps.Me to be able to better search for destinations, and any other app that uses OSM data.  Everybody wins.
OpenStreetMap is a public map of the world, much like Wikipedia is a public encyclopedia. The data belongs to you and me.  And everybody else as well.
Preparing to add POIs to the map
All changes to OSM should be done as an authenticated user.  Users can either create an account at OSM or they can use a third party authentication.  Maps.Me supports third party authentication through either Facebook or Google. 
Registering at OSM (optional) 
OSM accounts can be created at the new user page, https://www.openstreetmap.org/user/new 
At the OSM registration an e-mail address, user name, and password need to be provided.

If an OSM account is not used, users will need to log in through either Facebook or Google.
Install the app
The Maps.Me is a free app that makes the process of adding POIs simple yet complete. It can be downloaded from either the Apple App Store or Google Play.


Add POIs to the map
Now you’re ready to add POIs to the map.  It’s easy to do.  And shortly we will see how it can also be fun.
When you launch Maps.Me, it looks like most GPS apps, opening to a map view.


When a person comes to a place that they would like to mark as a POI, they can choose to add a POI.  Touch the menu item at the lower right hand corner of the screen, then choose Add a place to the map.

A map location pointer will appear on the screen.  The pointer will always remain at the center of the screen, but the user can move the map under the screen to set the pointer at the desired location.  Usually for buildings, to help people living with blindness and visual impairment the most, 
it is recommended that the pointer be located such that it represents the door into the building.  When the building outline is already on the map, place the pointer where the door is.  If the building outline is not already on the map, stand next to the door, then leave the pointer at your current position.

If you do not see building outlines in your area, consider participating in ways to upload this information, too. For more information on adding building shapes to the map, see https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Buildings.

Choose the category of the POI

And then fill in as much information about the POI as you can.  The information categories will change according to the category of the POI.


At the end touch Save in the upper right corner to save your new POI to OSM.  Now others will be able to find this place because of your help.
Make it fun
Adding POIs can be rewarding, even fun.
The Results
If you wait about ½ an hour, you can then go to https://www.openstreetmap.org and search for the POI that you added.  You can see your contribution to the map, and to the mapping community!

Nearby Explorer
If you are a Nearby Explorer user, depending on the state in which you live, the POI will be available to OSM searches in as little as 24 hours after the change has been accepted.  If you would like your state to be updated more frequently than it currently is, please e-mail technology@aph.org to have your request considered.
The Challenge to Rise in the Rankings
Mapping POIs is not a chore!  It is something that you can do because you choose to do so.  And Maps.Me has a feature that you can use to make it fun!  Maps.Me keeps track of how many changes you make using the app.

Challenge your friends.  See who can make the most verified changes to the map.  And who can get the best ranking.
